README.md, before:

# Mathoid-server

[![Build Status][1]][2] [![dependency status][3]][4] [![dev dependency status][5]][6] [![Coverage Status][7]][8]

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/mathoid.png)](https://nodei.co/npm/mathoid/)

Mathoid-server is a service that uses MathJax to create SVGs and MathML on server side.
Mathoid-server is a based on svgtex - https://github.com/agrbin/svgtex.



## Installation
Install node 6.9.0 or a compatible node version.
In addition the prerequisites from [librsvg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/librsvg#installation) are needed.
For Debian based systems installing the `librsvg2-dev` should be sufficient.
```bash
sudo apt-get install librsvg2-dev
```
Thereafter, install mathoid by running
```bash
npm install mathoid
node /node_modules/mathoid/server.js
```
To install mathoid as a unix service there is a [script](scripts/gen-init-scripts.rb).

### Running the tests
To run the tests you need to install mocha.
After that you can run the tests from the mathoid folder.
```bash
npm test
```

## API Description

The main entry point is '/' with one required POST parameter 'q'.

Additional entry points for individual formats are
* /texvcinfo does not do any rendering. Only displays information regarding the texvc input.
* /speech returns the speech output only
* /mml only MathML
* /svg only SVG
* /png only PNG
* /json (same as /)
* /complete (see below)

The 'complete' output format is equal to the 'json' one except that it also
includes the headers for individual types in the response body as well. The
output specification is identical, except that the 'mml', 'svg' and 'png' fields
are now (JSON) objects containing the 'body' and 'headers' fields.

#### q (input to be converted)

* required parameter
* no $ for (La)TeX input

#### type (the input type)
* optional
* defalult 'tex'
* possible values
  * tex (texvc input will be verified by texvccheck)
  * inline-tex (texvc input will be rendered with small operators)
  * mml (MathML input, used in latexml rendering mode)
  * ascii (ascii mathml input, experimental)

#### nospeech
* optional
* if speech output is enabled this switch suppresses speech output for one particular request

## Config
* svg: creates and svg image (turned on by default)
* img: creates a img element with dimension information about the svg image
* png: creates png images using java
* speech: creates speech output using speech rule engine
* texvcinfo: displays information regarding the texvc input (experimental)
* speechOn: default setting for speech output. 'true' is equivalent to the old speakText.

## Performance
The performance tests can be run by executing the [performance.sh](scripts/performance.sh) script.

On our labs-vagrant test instance with 8 workers and 100 request the following results were obtained
for the input $E = m c^2$:

|format                                      |time|    sd|
|--------------------------------------------|----|------|
| [texvcinfo](doc/test_results/performance_texvcinfo.txt) |0005|003.2|
| [mml](doc/test_results/performance_mml.txt)             |0334|061.2|
| [svg](doc/test_results/performance_svg.txt)             |0343|058.6|
| [png](doc/test_results/performance_png.txt)             |0027|007.2|

|format (without speech support)               |time|    sd|
|----------------------------------------------|----|------|
| [texvcinfo](doc/test_results/ns/performance_texvcinfo.txt) |0005|003.0|
| [mml](doc/test_results/ns/performance_mml.txt)             |0030|004.5|
| [svg](doc/test_results/ns/performance_svg.txt)             |0030|004.2|
| [png](doc/test_results/ns/performance_png.txt)             |0030|005.7|
The time, i.e. "Total Connection Times" were measured in unit ms.
## Create a new release

Checkout the latest version and switch to the master branch:
* git-dch -R -N version
* git-buildpackage --git-tag -S

see also https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/Git-buildpackage

publish as ppa
* dput ppa:physikerwelt/mathoid ../version.changes

## Tests
Based on the Template for creating MediaWiki Services in Node.js
The template also includes a test suite a small set of executable tests. To fire
them up, simply run:

```
npm test
```

If you haven't changed anything in the code (and you have a working Internet
connection), you should see all the tests passing. As testing most of the code
is an important aspect of service development, there is also a bundled tool
reporting the percentage of code covered. Start it with:

```
npm run-script coverage
```

### Troubleshooting

In a lot of cases when there is an issue with node it helps to recreate the
`node_modules` directory:

```
rm -r node_modules
npm install
```

[1]: https://travis-ci.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server.svg
[2]: https://travis-ci.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server
[3]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server.svg
[4]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server
[5]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server/dev-status.svg
[6]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server#info=devDependencies
[7]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/physikerwelt/mathoid-server.svg
[8]: https://coveralls.io/r/physikerwelt/mathoid-server

Commit message:

Update to mathoid-mathjax-node 0.7
* Adjust the mathoid package to be compatible with
  MathJax-node 1.0
* Calculate the mathoid style attribute
  which was formerly done in mathjax-node
* Add speech support adapted from
https://github.com/pkra/mathjax-node-sre/blob/master/lib/main.js
* Add option to expose enriched pmml
* Fix: order of expected and actual output
  The order of actual and expected output was swapped.
* Fix \definecolor is unknown
  Explicitly load color module. See also
  https://github.com/mathjax/MathJax-node/issues/307
* Do not use semantic annotations for simple tests
* Update dependencies
* Update reference images
* Improve testing infrastructure
** ignore XML inherent differences
** improve test coverage 100% now for math related code
   i.e., lib/math.js, lib/render.js, routes/mathoid.js
** Fix: Dimensions in test cases
** Store testdata in a separate file
** Deduplicate test code
** Add script to adjust test
** Add more options to skip tests
* Support for get requests

Bug: T172767 T155201 T182316
Change-Id: I9fe1e0e5fe0585edc4f85d6a3747e3f3c748083f

README.md, after:

# Mathoid-server

[![Build Status][1]][2] [![dependency status][3]][4] [![dev dependency status][5]][6] [![Coverage Status][7]][8]

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/mathoid.png)](https://nodei.co/npm/mathoid/)

Mathoid-server is a service that uses MathJax to create SVGs and MathML on server side.
Mathoid-server is a based on svgtex - https://github.com/agrbin/svgtex.



## Installation
Install node 6.9.0 or a compatible node version.
In addition the prerequisites from [librsvg](https://www.npmjs.com/package/librsvg#installation) are needed.
For Debian based systems installing the `librsvg2-dev` should be sufficient.
```bash
sudo apt-get install librsvg2-dev
```
Thereafter, install mathoid by running
```bash
npm install mathoid
node /node_modules/mathoid/server.js
```
To install mathoid as a unix service there is a [script](scripts/gen-init-scripts.rb).

### Running the tests
To run the tests you need to install mocha.
After that you can run the tests from the mathoid folder.
```bash
npm test
```

## API Description

The main entry point is '/' with one required POST parameter 'q'.

Additional entry points for individual formats are
* /texvcinfo does not do any rendering. Only displays information regarding the texvc input.
* /speech returns the speech output only
* /mml only MathML
* /svg only SVG
* /png only PNG
* /json (same as /)
* /complete (see below)

The 'complete' output format is equal to the 'json' one except that it also
includes the headers for individual types in the response body as well. The
output specification is identical, except that the 'mml', 'svg' and 'png' fields
are now (JSON) objects containing the 'body' and 'headers' fields.

#### q (input to be converted)

* required parameter
* no $ for (La)TeX input

#### type (the input type)
* optional
* defalult 'tex'
* possible values
  * tex (texvc input will be verified by texvccheck)
  * inline-tex (texvc input will be rendered with small operators)
  * mml (MathML input, used in latexml rendering mode)
  * ascii (ascii mathml input, experimental)

#### nospeech
* optional
* if speech output is enabled this switch suppresses speech output for one particular request

## Config
* svg: creates and svg image (turned on by default)
* img: creates a img element with dimension information about the svg image
* png: creates png images using java
* speech: creates speech output using speech rule engine
* texvcinfo: displays information regarding the texvc input (experimental)
* speechOn: default setting for speech output. 'true' is equivalent to the old speakText.

## Performance
The performance tests can be run by executing the [performance.sh](scripts/performance.sh) script.

On our labs-vagrant test instance with 8 workers and 100 request the following results were obtained
for the input $E = m c^2$:

|format                                      |time|    sd|
|--------------------------------------------|----|------|
| [texvcinfo](doc/test_results/performance_texvcinfo.txt) |0005|003.2|
| [mml](doc/test_results/performance_mml.txt)             |0334|061.2|
| [svg](doc/test_results/performance_svg.txt)             |0343|058.6|
| [png](doc/test_results/performance_png.txt)             |0027|007.2|

|format (without speech support)               |time|    sd|
|----------------------------------------------|----|------|
| [texvcinfo](doc/test_results/ns/performance_texvcinfo.txt) |0005|003.0|
| [mml](doc/test_results/ns/performance_mml.txt)             |0030|004.5|
| [svg](doc/test_results/ns/performance_svg.txt)             |0030|004.2|
| [png](doc/test_results/ns/performance_png.txt)             |0030|005.7|
The time, i.e. "Total Connection Times" were measured in unit ms.

## Run as service (with PM2)

[PM2](http://pm2.keymetrics.io/) is a process manager for Node.js. It supports starting applications
on system startup. You can set up mathoid to run automatically using this process manager.

For example, run
```bash
npm install pm2 -g
pm2 start pm2.config.js
pm2 save
pm2 startup
```
Thereafter check the generated output and run it as with root permissions.

## Create a new release

Checkout the latest version and switch to the master branch:
* git-dch -R -N version
* git-buildpackage --git-tag -S

see also https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/Git-buildpackage

publish as ppa
* dput ppa:physikerwelt/mathoid ../version.changes

## Tests
Based on the Template for creating MediaWiki Services in Node.js
The template also includes a test suite a small set of executable tests. To fire
them up, simply run:

```
npm test
```

If you haven't changed anything in the code (and you have a working Internet
connection), you should see all the tests passing. As testing most of the code
is an important aspect of service development, there is also a bundled tool
reporting the percentage of code covered. Start it with:

```
npm run-script coverage
```

### Troubleshooting

In a lot of cases when there is an issue with node it helps to recreate the
`node_modules` directory:

```
rm -r node_modules
npm install
```

[1]: https://travis-ci.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server.svg
[2]: https://travis-ci.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server
[3]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server.svg
[4]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server
[5]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server/dev-status.svg
[6]: https://david-dm.org/physikerwelt/mathoid-server#info=devDependencies
[7]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/physikerwelt/mathoid-server.svg
[8]: https://coveralls.io/r/physikerwelt/mathoid-server
